Google have dropped the hammer of
Reckoning with the March 2024 spam
update here's everything you're going to
want to
[Music]
know hey I'm Sam Dunning founder over at
breaking bb.com and if you want to check
out past podcast episodes join thousands
of Legends enjoying the weekday
newsletter or apply to work with us for
your B2B SEO or website then head over
to Breaking B2
be.com so is this the end of the crazy
AI heists those mad upward trending
graphs you might have seen on Twitter
LinkedIn or other social channels where
folks were bashing out AI content at
scale and getting insane results through
using AI to produce a ton of SEO focused
content I'm going to share the Three
core updates Google have rolled out this
March 2024 you need to be aware of of
along with my recommendations my two
cents to keep your website organic
rankings and traffic safe and how to
actually keep them progressing with
foundational basics of SEO but they're
not only simple tactics they're tactics
that I've seen withstand the Google
hammer time and time again let's dive in
but before we dive in here's what
Google's director of product management
Elizabeth Tucker had to say on the topic
so if we scroll down on the latest
article they put on the keyword she said
we believe these updates will reduce the
amount of low quality content on search
and send more traffic to helpful and
high quality sites based on our
evaluations we expect that the
combination of this update and our
previous episodes will collectively
reduce low quality unoriginal content in
search results by
40%
40% all right that's it let's dive into
the top three so here's my skimmable
Lowdown on the three updates of the
March 2024 spam update from Google let's
dive straight on
in so at number one we've got scaled
content abuse so this could be mashing
out tons of content using AI tools like
chat GPT or similar what Google is
saying is if you are mass producing
content at scale using those tools or
manually purely with the focus to get
rankings rather than actually be helpful
educational useful valuable to your
target prospects after all the point of
SEO right is to get our Target clients
our Target customers onto our Pages onto
our articles usually to kind of convert
them right especially in the B2B sense
we want to build trust we want to become
authorities in our sector and certainly
from B2B what I talk about mostly on
this podcast and channel is to drive
inbound leads or Dem requests and if
you're bashing out content at scale how
can it really be helpful to the End
customer like what are you going to know
when it comes to researching their pain
points their goals their ideas their
jobs to be done and more and what Google
have said is our long-standing spam
policy that been in use when it comes to
autom automation including generative AI
is Spam if the primary purpose is to
manipulate those search results that's
come from Google search Central so scale
content abuse is number
one down at two we've got site
reputation abuse so that's basically
where you're using sites that already
have some Authority so they've got high
domain Authority or high reputation
they've been around a long time they got
a lot of pages they've got a lot of
links they've got a lot of solid
rankings in that industry and then
paying for a link whether that's a guest
post or article on a site but the link
you're paying for with that guest
article or similar is not actually
useful to the visitors so maybe it's
something completely random to the topic
so the example Google gave is maybe if
you publish on a Payday Loans website
purely to get advantages of their
reputation so maybe you post about I
don't know let's say you post about the
advantage of building a great website
but on a Payday Loans site as a guest
article then Google's could see this as
confusing or misleading information and
then punish you with the update
and down at number
three we've got expired domain abuse so
this is where you purchase perhaps old
domains that have got again solid domain
Authority but then you're adding content
that's not relevant to what they're
originally about so maybe you get a site
that's all about life insurance but then
you start posting about building a SAS
company on there so you're purely
getting the bang for buck that the old
domain had the author Authority in the
the sense of trying to get it ranking
fast because the domain's got great
Authority but then Google Sees you're
talking about completely different or
relevant subject misleading
prospects and therefore you could be
punished with this spam update so you'll
see a lot of this is basically about
trying to get quick wins quick hacks
whether that's with AI tools whether
that's trying to build quick links
aren't relevant or piggybacking on
domains with misleading or relevant
content so a lot of this comes down to
just doing sensible things don't Mass
produce content don't abuse sites and
don't buy domains and then publish
content that's not going to be relevant
to what your audience
expects so with all that said what are
my two cents what are my recommendations
based upon this latest spam update first
and foremost when it comes to using AI
tools be it chat GPT or another one go
steady so we saw some sites get insane
rankings insane traffic and more but
suddenly take a huge dip after this
latest update so if you're going to use
AI tools be it chat gbt or another one
go careful maybe use it to pull
statistics insights or similar that you
can then weave into your website Pages
or article Pages maybe use it as a rough
foundation for some of those pages but
not to write the whole thing make sure
you rewrite it check it fully customize
it and make sure it's fresh and unique
content and you want to follow eat
experience expertise Authority trust
when putting together website Pages or
articles that means you either put
together the content yourself if you're
an industry expert or you hire a writer
that has industry expertise on the topic
they're actually talking about and it
comes down to foundationals in marketing
so when you're putting together a piece
of content understanding who that dream
client you're writing for is what are
their expensive problems they care about
fixing what are their key goals what are
the jobs they want to get done as a part
of reading this page or this article and
what are the common questions that we
can weave in that we can address to show
Google that this page is trustworthy
that we're actually Hands-On experts in
the subject that we've got experience
that we're building authority maybe
we're weaving in Social proof into the
article solution page so we're sharing
testimonials case studies proof of
results and we're showing that we're
trustworthy we know our stuff on the
subject and more so if you follow those
foundationals from what I've seen from
my own website breaking bb.com and for
clients following those traditional
methods understanding your target client
your dream clients what they care about
learning actually speaking to them
regularly to understand those insights
their problems their goals their jobs to
be done means not only will you rank
well when it comes to SEO but you
actually got more chance to resonate and
convert those Target clients with your
content through
SEO and there you have it I hope you
found this recap and recommendations of
the March 2024 Google spam update of use
if you want to join thousands of Legends
enjoying my weekday newsletter or if you
want to apply to work with us for your
B2B company's SEO or website then head
over to breaking
bb.com and I shall catch you on the next
one cheers